From hanselminutes.com. It's Hanselman. It's
a weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing show
number one 83. Recorded live
Friday, October 10th, 2009. Support for Hanselman
it's is provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forums and asp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, recorded
with a group of Ustream
and Twitter users. Scott talks
about gadgets, webcams high Def
and more. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
except this is a very
strange, very sad, very live
very internet episode of Hansel
minutes. In fact, it is
Friday night at 2:00 AM. The
children are asleep, the wife
is asleep and I'm talking
to you guys. We're on
ustream.tv in a channel called
handsome and it's live with
35 other pathetic humans actually
forgive me. You're not pathetic
human. If you are in
another time zone, I would
give great respect to the
people in Sweden and Australia
who were actually up at
a reasonable hour. It's the
people on the West coast
that we feel we feel
bad for much respect to
Andrew in the UK. See,
one of the things that
we get to do here
on Ustream is we can
see people chatting while I'm
talking. So I will recording
the show. It's also going
out live to a massive
audience of three now 34
people. In fact, one last
we've already lost a viewer.
This is the kind of
high quality recording that we
are going to give people
a here on the Hansel
minutes, I guess it is
Saturday morning. It's Friday night,
Saturday morning. It is 2:00 AM
on Saturday. Very, very sad.
So what I wanted to
do on this episode is
I was sitting here in
my office and I looked
around and I noticed that
there's just a ridiculous amount
of gadgetry and crap sitting
on my desk. And I
thought it would be interesting
to do kind of a
review of some of these
interesting tools I've been playing
with lately. We got lots
of stuff going on. We've
got people from all over
the world. We got a
guy from Poland. We got
a guy from the UK.
We got my buddy long
from, I started something.com he's
on from Australia. Hopefully more
people will show up from
Twitter and I can take
their questions about these gadgets
and some of the technology
here on the, on the
Ustream. So very, very cool.
So let me think here.
It's really been a multimedia
couple of a couple of
days for me. I've got
my, my classic Zune and
this is the radio portion
where I actually hold up
the, the, the product and
the people who are listening
to this in their cars
and their commutes have no
idea what I'm doing. I've
got my old zoom. This
is my 30, my 30
gigs June. And then I've
got my new shiny edition
of the Zune HD. I'm
showing the viewers here. This
is the custom Scott Hanselman
engraved version of the red
zoon HD. I put my
URLs on the back and
I posted a picture that's
on Twitter. And the first
comment was what you forgot
your own website. Not, not
cool. This is awesome because
no one will steal my
zoom now because they're going
to go to the URL.
They're going to see my
smiling face when I lose
it. And they're going to
mail it back to me,
loving the new Zune. I
hold these up to each
other. You can see the,
the blocky chunky kind of
Fred Flinstone ask Zune original
edition and in the incredibly
sleek zoon HD, it's really,
really nice. And I've actually,
I, if I just happened
to have an eye touch,
I see there I go
saying, I touch. I just
defended both of the Apple
Gates in the room, an
iPod touch, and I hold
it up next to it.
You can see that the
Zune is really, really small.
The Zune is, is this
strange place in between an
iPod and an iPod nano
it's really, really small. And
the screen on this thing
is bananas. I I'm telling
you, even if you turn
the screen up on brightness,
on the iPod to the
brightest, the Zune HD screen
is the O led. This
is the organic led screen.
And this thing is ridiculous.
The Zune has got so
much extra graphics power that
they even have a little
screen, a little like screensaver.
So when you're playing music
with somebody, somebody famous, like
maybe playing music with like
Beyonce or somebody they'll they'll
have stuff going on in
the background, actually I'm showing
the folks on Ustream here.
An episode of high definition,
episode of heroes. The irony
of course, is that because
it's three in the morning,
the people who are listening
to Hanselman is live. Don't
have the ability to get
this product. I don't know
why these things happen that
way. Why a few folks
overseas don't get these things,
but, but we do the,
the, the album art on
this is really amazing because
they don't just have the
art for the album on
the Zune HD, but they
also have wallpaper going on
in the background. And then
after a little while, when
you're playing this, it'll switch
over into this kind of
like entertainment mode where it
just like here, I'm showing
Beyonce just being awesome. And
then you get kind of
that Ken burns effect, the
Ken burns the documentary filmmaker
on PBS public broadcasting here
in the U S he,
this is the, the whole,
let's take a static photo
and pan really slowly, and
then suddenly it, it feels
more dynamic. So now we've
actually got the Zune HD
in beyond same mode and
a much respect to the
folks in the chat room
who are, or appreciating this,
the battery life on the,
on the Zune is fantastic
as well. I haven't had
any problems at all. It
really is a shame that
this didn't come out earlier
because the Zune is it's,
it's prettier than the iPod.
It's more fun than the
iPod. It, but it doesn't,
it doesn't have a phone.
And this is the part
that just kills me. It
is truly the best MP3
player that I've, that I've
ever had. It's, it's fantastic
for podcasts, but I keep
wanting to pick it up
and make a call and
it just doesn't happen. We
just don't have that. We
don't have that support. One
of the things though, that
is comforting about the zoom
to me is that the
UI is so right. They've
got this so correct that
I think we may actually
pull off windows, windows, mobile.
We all know that windows
mobile, 6.5 is not windows
mobile, seven. It's kind of
an evolutionary thing. They got
some sheen on it, but
people still complain about the
old UI. The Zune is
completely different in the way
that it deals with, with
user interface. And it actually
succeeds in making an iPod
look old. And I don't
say this as a Microsoft
shill. I say this as
a guy who has purchased
basically every device that has
ever existed, if it is
a piece of software, I
have installed it. And if
it is a gadget, I
have purchased it. This is
the sadness. That is my
life. I'm so seriously. The
Zune HD is a joy.
The other thing about the
Zune that is amazing of
course, is the Zune pass.
This is the ability to
lease music and it's kind
of complicated. The Zune pass
is a shame. I don't,
I think this is not
actually taking off with the
kids because it's hard to
explain basically, 15 bucks a
month for the price of
one CD. You can lease
as much music as you
want. You can listen all
day long to music. And
as a bonus, you get
10 free songs that are
actually MP3s. So you're not,
then you would think that
would be the elevator speech,
but then people go wait
a second. When I get
to rent music and I
get 10 MP3. So wait
a second. What exactly happens
there? You're you, you are
paying 15 bucks a month,
1499. You get 10 songs.
They're MP3s. When June goes
away and Microsoft is gone
and it's just nothing left.
You still have that music
it's MP3s, and then you
can lease as much music
as you want. So for
example, let's see who I've
got here. I'm looking at
my, my Zune for something
that I would not ordinarily
ordinarily listen to Avril Levine.
Okay. I can't, I cannot
be held responsible for this.
Someone in my house decided
at some point that something
Avril living did was inoffensive,
probably my wife, she then
said, Oh, I like that
song. And then she said,
Oh, well, crap. I'll just
take them all. And then
suddenly after living in showed
up at my zone, of
course, this actually gets sinked
wirelessly. So the zoom never
actually has to touch my
computer. It actually sits in
the, in the front of
the, the living room there
right next to the TV.
Cause this happens to be
the HD zone. We just
dock it next to our
big HDTV. The wife's got
a remote control. She can
control all of this music
from there. And it doesn't
have to think about this.
It automatically syncs kind of
overnight. I've caught it sinking
itself. A couple of times
I've snuck up on the
Zune and found it doing
this. Here's the other cool
thing, because the Zune HD
has wireless. I can also
browse the web. It's got
like an  on six
on six, the kind of
browser that they had in
the new windows. Mobile had
a little more advanced. So
it's got the pinchy Safari
thing going, but here's the
cool part. I scroll down
to the bottom of the
Avril Levine and it says
the marketplace discography, this is
a part of what gets
sinked. So even though we
only sinked a couple of
Avril Levine albums, they included
in the sink packet, not
only the, the album covers
and all the songs, as
well as the wallpaper, but
in fact, all of admirals,
other albums that I don't
care about. Look at that
Aberly beans put out a
lot of stuff. Yes. Someone
online just said the long
tail sale, this has actually
happened a couple of times
where I was listening to
my favorite comedian patent Oswald.
It was incredibly offensive. And
if you like being offended,
you should listen to patent
stuff. And then I clicked
on marketplace. Desal graphy found
two albums. I didn't know,
patent did hit download and
instantly wirelessly quote unquote, bought
them, lease them from the
Zune. That's a pretty cool
experience and a big, you
know, big props for Microsoft
for pulling this off. If
windows seven looks anything like
this, if I can go
like, Hey, it's a zoom.
It's great. Hello. Yes. One
moment. I'll be right there.
That would be a killer
thing. And this is, this
actually gets to another thing
about Microsoft and working as
a, as a professional Microsoft
shell is that, of course
I worked for the developer
division. So my job is
to make people successful in
C sharp, not to sell
Zunes, but I was at
my windows seven launch party
yesterday with a few other
nerds and people on people
on Facebook who showed up.
And I actually found myself
saying, gosh, it's nice to
work for a company where
I don't have to be
kind of completely ashamed of
what we did. You know,
windows seven is just such
a joy and the Zune
is kicking butt and the
Xbox is awesome. And I
was like, wow, we don't,
we don't completely suck right
now. And that just made
me feel really awesome about
working for Microsoft. Speaking of
things from Microsoft that don't
suck, check this out. This
just came in the mail.
This is my Microsoft life
cam cinema 50 bucks. My
friends, I think it's retails
for 80, but you know
the internet. So I've got
a way for you to
get these things for cheaper.
Got this with the being
cashback. This is the life
cam HD. This is a
$50 camera. It's a tiny
little webcam and it does
full HD, 1280 by seven
20 P. I actually bought
two. I didn't just buy
two so I could hold
one in front of the
camera and have the, the
one that I'm using pointed
at it. But I needed
one for the wife and
one for myself. So when
I leave and go on
trips, I can talk to
the kids in HD. So
the deal with this is
we've got a full 16
by nine, a seven, 20
P H D camera. It'll
do all the different resolutions
from a four by three,
all the way up to
full 1280 by seven 20
P it's got an actual
glass lens. The only problem
with this is that it
doesn't have the software to
really back it up. A
couple of people online here
are saying that they read
the blog post. You may
have seen me blog about
this. If you go to
my blog and hanselman.com, I've
got a number of tips
on how you can actually
hack Skype to do full
HD on this by actually
messing with their configs. Here's
the tragedy though, from what
I can tell and the
disclaimer, of course, on my
blogging in this talk here
is that I don't know
these people, right? I just
bought this. I don't know
the guys on this team,
but you need a beefy
machine to run this thing.
You need a machine with
some hootspa for lack of
a better word. I have
a quad proc. And when
I was encoding, fully two
of my processors were we're
working to get that thing
and coded to talk to
the other side. I was
talking to Brad Wilson actually,
but HD, it was rocking
suite. And then I ended
up calling Jeff Atwood from
coding horror, and we tried
to find a balance. We
hooked it up at six
40 by four 80. And
that wasn't kind of nice
is once it's like, once
you see a DVD on
a wide screen and suddenly
you don't want to do
it anymore, you don't want
to do the four by
three square. And it was
funny. Jeff was saying he
would actually prefer a 16
by nine low res version
of me as a video
chat than a square once
he'd seen it. So we
ended up finding a halfway
Mark. I think it was
like nine 60 by five
44 or something like that.
Basically a 16 by nine
rectangular shape. That was slightly
less than HD, but clearly
better than DVD quality. And
even though I'm sure there
were some tricks of motion
and some pretty hardcore compression
going on, it was like
being there. And I definitely
plan on hooking up the,
the Hansel portal, which is
the machine that I use
to talk to Phil hack.
That's over here to my
right, with one of these
cameras. And I love these
cameras so much. I actually
sent one to everyone on
my team cause I'm a
manager. Now I can do
stuff like that. So everyone
on the team got one
of these. So as I
understand it, looking at one
of the questions here, messenger
doesn't seem to do HD
chat. The word on the
street is that it, you
know, that it will. And
I, when I say word
on the street, that implies
that I know something, I
don't, it in fact means
don't you think they would
do it when someone comes
out with a piece of
hardware like this, and it
says right there in bold
face, bigger than Skype, look
at the bottom of the
box here. It says works
with windows messenger and that's
the, they made the font
twice as big. Yeah, that's
because it's probably gonna work
with windows messenger. So I
have no doubt that at
some point in the future
in awesome version of windows,
messages is going to come
out that supports, but I've
used it on office communicator,
live meeting Skype who VU
O O V O that
lets you do up to
six people. And they're talking
about HD as well, as
well as windows live messenger.
And it works awesome. This
camera works immediately with live
messenger and switches into DVD
mode, which is basically six
40 by four ADP. As
soon as you go full
screen and you have enough
bandwidth, it says a little
thing at the bottom says,
Oh, you're in high quality
mode. So very, very cool.
And as I understand that
there's support somewhere in office
communicator for this kind of
stuff as well, but again,
all speculation. So I think
that the, the, the takeaway
there is that the hardware
for HD is happening. It
is clear that at some
point the software will we'll
we'll work it out to
the Skype thing that I've
logged about is clearly a
hack. And, but I'm sure
that the people are working
on this, whether it be
office communicator, live messenger, interestingly,
and as I said in
the blog post, the thing
that's going to make HD
chat work is that everything
else has to work. I
mean, think about all this
stuff that has to happen.
And you're talking about 30
frames, a second high Def
video on the fly, compressed
quad proc machine, a megabit
up. And I'm just pulled
that number out of my
butt. You know, a, a
really great camera. So many
things need to work. I
would understand why they wouldn't
just turn that on and
say, Hey, look, it kind
of halfway works because what
would happen is a bunch
of people would have bad
experiences. And then people would
say, yeah, HD chat. Doesn't
really, it doesn't really work.
There's a lot of stuff
that has to happen to
it, to make that work.
And I'm interested for the
folks that are, that are
international. What do you think
about that? Like for example,
if I turn my camera
over here to this side,
we've got the, the Hansel
portal. This portal here is
the one that I have
on all the time talking
to Phil hack. And here's
the camera. I leave that
running all day long. Is
that terribly wasteful? Do people
from overseas who have bandwidth
issues, are you bandwidth challenged?
Do you think of that
as being an incredibly wasteful
thing to do really Damien
does that in Australia. And
do you have unlimited internet?
Because I, you know, I
always have this sense that
unlimited isn't really unlimited. He
says it takes about a
gig of his data plan
a day. That's funny, last
time I was in Australia,
that was at a hotel
and they gave me 50
megabytes, 50 megabytes. And I
was halfway through sinking my
inbox when I ran out
of that and then was
kicked out of the hotel.
Yes. It's a bit, a
bit wasteful to talk to
Phil, but, well, it's not
really wasteful because bandwidth is
like water here. I, I,
I'm very, very lucky. I've
got fiber optic to the
house and I pay $50
for 20 megabits up 20
megabits down. Actually my buddy,
John backdoor, if he just
went and called a Verizon
files, that's our fiber optic
internet provider here in the
U S and he said,
well, you know, I want
an extra five megabits. So
you paid them $4 more
a month. And now he's
got 25 megabits down. So
if you are in a,
with limited bandwidth and you
are offended by our bandwidth
hogging on behalf of America,
I apologize other cool stuff
that I've got, Oh, speaking
of high Def. So yet
we saw this here in
the life. Cam is really
great because it comes with
the software out of the
box to do high-def videos.
And if you go to
my blog, I actually did
this up on Vimeo. Vimeo
lets you upgrade upload high-def.
And I did a before
and after, but I've talked
about this device before, this
is a great device. This
is the creative Vato, H
D V a D O.
And this is the device
where if you have a
nontechnical friend who doesn't read
a blog, you show them
this and their minds are
blown. And then you say,
and it's only a hundred
bucks and they go, Oh,
and then they immediately think
that you're trying to sell
it to them. This came
up at the windows launch
party yesterday. I showed this
to a few people and
I said, Oh yeah, you
know, I took these videos
that I'm showing you here
on the media center with
this little camera. Oh, where's
the camera. Where's the camera.
They were all expecting me
to come out with a
big Sony, super optical something.
I said, Oh yeah, I
took it on this little,
this little chiclet sized camera
here. And then you bust
out the USB port at
the bottom and then, Oh
my God, it's got USB
built in. And that's the
greatest thing I've ever seen.
This thing is fantastic. Creative
auto HD. I've had the
flip. I had the flip
ultra. I had the flip
Mino. God bless flip. I
sent the flip Mino back.
I like this camera. This
is fantastic. Had a little
bit of codec wonkiness but
the great thing about this
camera is whether you plug
it into a Mac, you
plug it into a PC,
is that the codex built
in? So if you happen
to go to an XP
machine that doesn't have the
right software, this'll install it.
Windows seven plays it all
out of the box. People
are very quiet on Twitter
here, but I appreciate that
Ray Linder has taken the
moment to what to type
in that he is laughing.
And that makes me happy
is the lens glass. That
is a good question. I
don't know. I guess I
could scratch it with a
diamond and then when it
scratches, I'm tapping it and
I don't get a glassy
feel on this particular device.
So I don't think that
the lens is glass on
the creative auto HD, but
remember what the great philosopher
Quintin Tarantino said, he, who
is most likely to make
declarative statements is most likely
to be called a fool.
In retrospect, therefore if I
declare on my show and
lay it down in a
wave file, that this is
not class, we will learn
immediately that it is in
fact glass. So I don't
know. It's the answer to
the question of is the
lens on the creative auto
HD glass. I don't know.
I'm upset. Here's another person
Damian is saying that his
logic life cam pro 9,000.
And in fact, the life
cam pro line thousand from
logic is often considered to
be kind of like the,
the competitor, I guess, for
the, for the life game,
it'll do a nine 60
by seven 20, which interestingly,
isn't true. HD. If you
get in, if you're being
really technical, you want to
have 1280 across, but yes,
it'll work with Skype too.
If you use the Skype
pack, it's not widescreen though.
And that's the thing that's
interesting about this. When I
use the life cam cinema
HD in windows, excuse me,
an office communicator. I actually
see bars across my head.
So I get that 16
by nine. So people with
chat programs that only do
square, ended up getting a
little DVD bar across the
time. So that's crazy. Yup.
See, now Damien's turning around.
There you go with the
declarative statements and he's saying
it does do white screen.
So another option I wanted
to look at is the
logic life camp pro, but
I went and bought a
pile of these. And if
you are a friend or
family, you are going to
get one of these for
Christmas because 50 bucks for
a high definition, camera is
freaking awesome. Hey everybody, this
is Scott coming at you
from another place in time.
No doubt. You probably bump
into testing tasks now, and
then, and your work and,
you know, writing functional tests
is probably not your favorite
thing. It's kind of difficult.
It takes time and the
results can be dubious. Well,
get ready to start liking
tests. Thanks to Tellerik with
the, the new webinar testing
framework. Building web automation test
is a breeze. You've got
code automation with advanced asp.net
Ajax and several light applications.
You can write a single
test, have it executed against
multiple browsers at once. You'd
benefit from a rich API
there's link support integration with
visual studio unit testing, also
in unit X unit and
NBA unit, not to mention
the free rappers for Telerik
rad controls for ESPN and
Ajax and several light, all
shipping with Telerik's new testing
tool. One of the best
features, the webinar testing framework,
which is developed by art
of test is it's absolutely
free Friday got hooked on
web testing framework, start using
it right away. Go to
tellerik.com for more info. Thanks
a lot. What else do
we have around the, the,
the office here? Oh yeah.
Speaking of bandwidth today, I,
I was at a local
bread shop called Panera Panera
sells overpriced sandwiches and then
forces you to sit with
them and surf the internet.
And in fact, they, this
is basically conference room B
for me. So it's like,
Hey Scott, how's it going?
Hey, can I just have
a small soda and sit
here and use your internet
for the next eight hours?
Sure. Scott. Yeah. Yeah. And
then they go over, they
have like a little separate
table for me with a
little cardboard, you know, folded
piece of paper that says
reserved. And then I just
sit there in the back
and suck the internet down
until I finally get nailed
by their Sonic wall firewall.
And they say that I
can't use tiny URL because
it's a naughty site, but
I'm not bitter. So I'm
at Panera this morning and
I'm in the middle of
a call. And then suddenly
I get the Panera captive
portal. So I'm like, I'm
typing, I'm typing. And then
we're doing live meeting. And
then suddenly everything gets switched
over to the Panera CA
captive portal with a nice
big red bold face. Please
limit your session to 30
minutes during the hours, basically
they needed the chair, they
needed the chair. So they
kicked me out. And you
know, you think you're a
geek. My friends, you are
not a geek until you're
sitting in Panera. And this
is going to be a
visual joke because the people
on the, on the Ustream
are gonna appreciate this, but
you're not truly a geek
until you bust it. The
office communicator Vieques 3000 headphones
and you're sitting in a
coffee shop, like you're about
to take off in a
black Hawk helicopter. And you're
having a full screen video
call. And you know how
you're usually like peek over
the shoulder of the guy
in front of you and
Hey, it looks like he's
typing a word document. It
must be doing his, his
dissertation. And I'm the guy
who's like, no, no, I
don't any want more cream
cheese. Hi, I'm on a
live meeting right here. Hello?
Hello. Can you hear me?
Yes. I was wearing headphones.
In fact, I wasn't wearing
these. These are, these are
the, the life cam I
think 3000. These are decent
enough headphones. If you want
to look like a putz,
I'm the one I was
using. There's this little guy
here, which in fact, didn't
you make me look like
a, a black Hawk helicopter
person. This made me look
like the kind of person
who would answer the phone.
If you dial zero, I
had the kind of always
be closing Glen, Gary, Glen
Ross kind of headset here.
Like I was calling for
donations for the local public
broadcasting service. I was wearing
this at, at Panera. So
I got kicked out of
Penn era and well, yeah,
I didn't like actually get
kicked out of Panera, but
effectively when your Mac address
is blocked, you would just
remove yourself from any bad
places that have blocked your
Mac. And then I wandered
around the parking lot, looking
for LyncSys or net gear
or anything at all that
I could do to, to
get some connectivity. And then
I saw one of these
signs on the side of
the road, like a sandwich
board that said clear, I
heard my clear modem go
here. I think he was
on the ground and clear
is a 4g WiMAX service
here. It is that we
have here in the U
S and it's like wifi,
except it's really, really wide
a reach. Like basically my
wifi fits the culdesac in
the house where I live.
So I've kind of got
this cloud. The cloud of
internet is over my house.
These apparently go over. Yes.
Thank you. The dongle is
ugly. The, these go over
about, I think a two
or three mile radius. So
let me hold up the
dongles so that the people
who think it looks ugly
can agree that it is,
it looks ugly. It's actually
a Motorola USB adapter. And
when you look at it
in device manager, it says
like, be mean, or B,
B, B E w E
something, but it's a WiMAX
USB adapter. And then they
give you this strange little
daily and you go like
this and yeah, plug it
in and basically use, I
don't know how to plug
it in. And you get
the little, this is a
really irritating adapter. So we're
going to give you another
adapter that allows you to
kind of like pivot. Yeah.
It's pretty special. So this
is just as I was
looking ugly with my little
headset on now, my computer
can look like crap. Okay.
So the tragedy, you ready
for this? Here's the tragedy.
And this is what happens
when you're an early adopter.
A couple of things happen
for me. One, I go
and I buy this thing
and there's a special deal
at clear right now for
22 bucks a month for
the first six months where
you get unlimited bandwidth. So
that's great, very limited coverage,
but it works all over
Oregon. It took all over
Seattle. So that's great. I'm
thinking, Hey, I'm 90% of
the time I'm in Oregon.
I'm in Seattle. This is
gonna, this is gonna be
fine. And it worked just
fine, but no windows seven
support. So I had to
lie and say, I was
Vista 64 bit. And ordinarily,
I don't feel bad about
that. But the guy gives
me a disc that says
October of 2008. And you
know, the 2008 in internet
years, especially when you're talking
about device drivers is effectively
a decade and no geek
in their right mind would
install anything from October of
2008. So I decided to
go up like the clever
guy that I am, and
I decided to go and
download the new drivers. So
I go, Oh, look that
September, 2009. Aha, I'm so clever.
Well, those drivers totally don't
work with windows seven and
they completely rewrote the little
launcher tool. So long story
short, I ended up installing
the really old drivers from
Vista 64 manually, and then
the really new connector. And
then things worked. Then I
called the highly trained technical
professionals at clear that were
ready to take my call
and help me through my
problem. And immediately when I
mentioned windows seven, they said,
we don't want to talk
to you. We can't tell
you anything. They thought I
was a reporter. I just
wanted them to say, do
you commit to support? I
just wanted to know immediately.
I try to say fizz
bin. They had no idea,
really don't call anywhere and
say, do you know who
I am? I'm Scott Hanselman,
because they will not get
you to second tier support
at all. So this is
the tragedy. This is a
really ugly, stupid dongle that
sits like this. But I
have a lovely, let me
just pick it up. This
isn't picking up my, Oh
my Lenovo here. This is
my in Lenovo w 500.
This is God's own laptop.
He used this on the
seventh day. When he rested,
he was watching hulu.com. This
has a WiMAX system built
into it. According to the
specs. Apparently it's got, yes,
I'm holding it like a
baby. I can we baby.
And apparently the WiMAX is
all around. And it's got
a little icon here that
actually says wide connect or
whatever. I don't have the
drivers for it. I have
no way to understand how
to hook this thing up
and try going into your
local seven 11 or corner
shop or ABC store or
wherever a Reese's pieces and
coffee are sold at seven
in the morning. And try
to explain to the reseller.
They're not the clear guy,
but the guy who's selling
the clear crap from underneath
the thing, the guy who
gets five bucks commission on
my $20 a month and
try saying no, no, no,
I don't want your crappy
USB dongle. I want the
max thingy. That's built into
this. I want the Intel
magic. I don't know how
it works. I don't know
where to plug in an
SD card. I have no
idea how to get Y
max working on this. So
instead I have a thing
sticking out of my machine.
So if anyone within the
sound of my voice has
any idea how to get
the WiMAX magic to work
in here that does not
involve popping open the laptop.
This is great. So EOF
says most w series Lenovo
laptops have antennas for WiMAX.
Thank you, sir. Pop open
the laptop and the card
is fairly visible. Oh, wait,
would you like to tell
me exactly how I'm going
to pop the lab? This
is a $3,000 laptop. Okay.
What am I going to?
I'm just going to get
a butter knife and pop
this open out and tell
me how to do it.
I will do it. I'll
do it here. Live on
the show and I'll rip
the gut screws on the
bottom. Doesn't void the warranty.
Now plastic ruler, people are
now saying to use things
that I don't think are
a good idea. All right,
well, you and me, we'll
take this off offline and
we'll see if we can,
between a screwdriver and a
butter knife, or maybe a
spork. Let's do it. Now.
He's saying it'll have four
to eight screws. That's great.
Four to eight screws. Could
you be a little bit
less specific? There'll be as
many as 12 or as
few as zero screws that
you'll be, have to take
out on the, the Lenovo
PC here. I, I would
very much like to know
how to do that. So
you and I are going
to go offline and we're
going to talk about that
because that would be Epic.
When the next question, of
course, it's going to figure
out who at fifth level
technical support at clear is
going to help me set
this up. But yeah, it
would be awesome if I
didn't have to carry this
around, but then of course
you have a problem, right?
This is portable. I can
plug this into my, my
tiny Dell mini where's my
Dell mini, somewhere around here.
I've got my little tiny
Dell. I can plug this
into a Dominique. It looks
ugly, but then I get
internet everywhere, right? Because isn't
the account married to the
thing it's like married to
the Mac address. So this
is the tragedy of being
an early adopter. It's very,
very unfortunate, but I'm digging
clear. It's been pretty cool
so far and I've enjoyed
myself. You know? So, you
know, other people have said,
why won't I tether? Well,
there's a couple of reasons.
One, I've got an at
and T account. And of
course Microsoft doesn't like iPhone,
so they won't pay for
an iPhone account. So there's
a couple of things. If
you have an iPhone and
you want to tether it,
it's not turned on yet
in the U S and
additionally, its just crappy 3g.
When I say crappy 3g,
I mean at T and
T 3g, which by definition
is crappy. 3g will not
get you very, very fast
speeds. I think the iPhone
original can do 3.6 megabits
per second, max. And we
say 3.6 per second. We're
talking about like on a
magical day where no one
else is on the network
and the sky is blue
and pigs are flying. And
then the iPhone three GS
is a little bit faster
chip and it'll do 7.2
again, only on magical Tuesdays.
However, I was able sitting
on the, on the patio
of Chipotle with the clear
card and I busted out
a solid 6.5 with the
speed test.net and didn't have
to do a thing. So
how big is this? How
big is this? Someone said
this is big. Here's how
big it is. There's my
here's. Here's where you go.
This is just as a
reference. There's my middle finger.
And then it is at
the same size as my
middle finger. I'm not flipping
you off audience, but rather
a T and T who
forced me into this. Now
I have to pay these
guys. The nice thing though,
about clear, no contract. I
like that. No contract. So
I'm gonna try this out
for a couple of months
and see if it's a
good idea. I do not
know. I do not know.
Let's see what else we've
got around the gadget house
here. We've got a bunch
of, this is another old
camera here. How'd you do?
Have you guys been you?
Oh actually this is good
idea. Alright. There it is.
See, I'm looking all over.
Oh, here it is. It's
right on. Like where is
it? It's right in front
of me. Okay. Let's see
if I can pick this
up without breaking anything. This
I blogged about a couple
of days ago. This is
wonderful, magical little thing here.
This is an IMO pivot
within, since my wife's name
is Mo she approves, this
is a little tiny USB
monitor and I have it
sitting in front of my,
my screens and I'm just
actually gonna kind of fire
up Hulu as an example,
Hulu in the U S
is what we use to
piss off the cable industry.
And Hulu is a place
where I can go online
and watch all sorts of
great shows for free. So
there's hulu.com running on my
little screen here and it
works great. 800 by four
80 is the word on
the street with these things.
I can run DVDs off
of it. I can run
a little movies off of
it. I can put Twitter
down here. I can put
you guys down here. Here's
the live streaming video. I'm
just going to look at
that. Move it down into
the, you guys are on
a move you back up
and it's all over USB,
truly magical. When I had
Hulu running the little device
driver that was doing whatever
magic needed to happen to
make this little tiny monitor
work was only using about
three or 4% of the
CPU. And that's an important
thing to point out because
this is not really a
monitor in the sense of
it's not hooked over with
display linker or VGA or
HTMI it's it's, it's just
shoving a ridiculous amount of
information through a USB cable.
Interestingly, it has a little
tiny USB on the back
and then it uses two
connectors on the front. One
of which I believe is
power. And one of which
I, I believe is a,
is the data it's not
a sideshow device? No Microsoft
had this thing in Vista
called a windows sideshow. And
this was the declaration that
all sorts of laptops would
suddenly start using a little
tiny screens that would allow
you to check your email
and allow you to look
at your Twitter on the,
maybe the backside of your
laptop. So you'd close your
laptop and there'd be another
screen on the other side,
or you'd open your laptop
and you'd have a little
monitor pop out the side.
This is not a sideshow
device. This is a full
on actual monitor. So for
example, if I go over
here to my desktop and
I hit personalized to bring
up what my resolution is,
I can take that little
resolution thing here and I'll
just drag it down. And
you can see for those
of you who are not
listening to the tiny, tiny,
tiny monitor, number three down
there, that's this monitor. See
how I actually laid it
out. The way that my,
the end of the physical
layout is there's tiny, tiny
monitor three. And it is
right now, 800 by four
80. I could even make
it my main display if
I wanted to. Yeah, some
of the Dell XPS has
have side shows, but I
don't think sideshow really took
off long Jang. My good
buddy in Australia wants to
know if it could do
portrait and I was gonna
make a little joke and
I was just going to
say, yes, it can and
then just turn it. But
yes, of course it can.
Everything can do portrait in
windows seven because it's part
of the driver process. You
just have to go and
click on orientation and then
you say portrait, it's got
a little thing on the
back here that lets you
hold it up like a
picture frame. And it comes
with this little lovely thing,
which is a little stand
for it and I can
put it on the stand
and then, ah, look at
that. It's pivoting boom. So
yes, it can totally pivot.
It is the greatest $129
that I have spent since
the $129 bottle of insulin
that I bought yesterday. So
yeah, definitely check it out.
That's the IMO pivot and
I blogged about that last
week. It is awesome. I'm
thinking about bringing it with
my Dell mini nine because
I think nothing would be
funnier than a guy with
a little tiny nine inch
laptop. That's what she said
and a little tiny nine
inch monitor next to it.
So, I mean, imagine like
literally being on an airplane
and then busting out the
tiny little pink, you know,
cause every time you pull
out a net book on
a plane, somebody is like,
Oh, I didn't know. They
came that small. That's fantastic.
And then you have, Oh,
well let me bring my
second monitor out. Like we'd
just be on a plane
on a tiny Dell mini
watching a DVD on dual
monitor. That would be freaking
Epic. It's $129. It's fantastic.
What frame rate can you
get? So interestingly, and this
is one of the questions
here that's happening on Ustream
live. Ben Marsh wants to
know what the frame rate
I can get in a
moment I go there. I
just showed Hulu running on
it. It ran fine. I
don't know if it goes
30 frames a second, but
I can tell you that
it's not noticeable. No one
knows that this is a,
you know, not a real
monitor plus if it becomes
a problem and it hasn't
been, but if it becomes
a problem, you can always
right click on that little
trick icon. And they've got
a button here that says
optimize for video. And this
basically says let's have fewer
pixels and get them out
faster. When I did this,
I ended up getting kind
of like not 800 by
four 80, but like, you
know, 400 by two 40.
So basically the, the view
became blockier, but the, the
thing became smoother. But honestly,
with this fast of a
machine with a dual core
machine, I just don't need
to use the optimized five
video feature. I'm using some
release candidate drivers that you
can get up at the
IMO pivot forums and the
only problem that I've had.
And it's, I'm sure it's
because it's a beta thing
is that when my machine
falls asleep, the monitors won't
turn back on, excuse me,
until I unplug the monitor
and then plug it back
in. So that's weird. And
then Damien of course is
providing some, some, some value
here by letting everyone know
that there's some carbon offsets
that I need to purchase
because I'm becoming like the
George Hamilton of the.net, a late
night talk show set. My
skin is, is tanned or
burned or stained blue from
the nits that are kind
of emanating from the multi-monitor
setup that I have here.
Thank you so much. Yeah,
you're really not wanting to
talk. Remember that you're on
a live webcam chat with
me. So I don't think
anyone gets the complaint here.
If people keep saying show
the Kindle DX. So, so
here's the deal. Speaking of
breaking international law, the Kindle
DX that I got to
play with, wasn't actually mine.
I have a Kindle it's
upstairs. The Kindle's fantastic. I'll
talk a lot about the
Kindle if you'd like, but
the Kindle DX was an
interesting trick. A buddy of
mine in Amsterdam desperately wanted
to have a Kendall and
he realized that as a
European, he wouldn't be able
to use it and he
couldn't wait to see whether
or not Amazon would release
a European version. So he
pay, palled me the money.
And then I bought the
Kindle DX and in exchange
for sending it to him,
I would check it out
and try it out for
a couple of weeks. So
I had a, both a
Kindle and a Kindle DX,
and I played with them
for awhile and it's pretty
cool. And then I ended
up mailing it to him
and I think I labeled
the box, use computer parts,
something like that. So he
wouldn't have to pay duty.
And now he's got a
Kendall DX and he uses
it for PDFs works great
for PDFs. The Kindle DX
is fantastic. It's got an
automatic pivot. So when you
pivot, it will pivot as
well, but you can turn
that off, which means that
you can actually lie down
in bed and look at
your PDFs. And they're really,
really clear. Tech technical documents
are not good on a
Kindle too. I've had the
Kindle one and the Kindle
too. And Andrew Tobin here
just asked the question that
I mentioned, tech docs are
not good, but they are
good in the tech on
a DX. The deal is
this. When you have a
PDF on a Kindle DX,
you're looking at like a
four by six screen, maybe
even a little smaller than
four by six, it's tiny.
The bezel, the bezel is
the part of the device
that is not the screen
is really thick on a
Kindle, not thick in the
depth sense, but thick and
the really wide sense like
those chunky monitors. This is
about this monitor is about
the size of a Kindle.
And that big frame on
the outside is about as
much space as you have
between the frame and the
outside of the, the Kindle
itself. It becomes a little
irritating, but it's less important
when you have a Kindle
DX because the Kindle DX
is like 10 inches, large.
It's fantastically huge. So when
you take a PDF and
you put it on a
Kindle DX, you're basically getting
an eight and a half
by 11 or for our
international friends and a four
piece of paper in about
a nine by space, you
know, nine by something space.
So it's like looking at
a small, full piece of
paper. Imagine if you took
an a four sheet of
paper and then photocopied at
about 75, 80%, that's what
it is. It looks like
it looks really good. Remember
though, that the resolution, the
DPI on a Kendall is
insane. If I remember correctly,
it was like 150, 160
a, it's not quite the
300 DPI that you'd expect
from the old laser printers,
but it's definitely to the
point where you don't see
the dots. You cannot see
the dots. Plus the Kendall
DXF remember correctly. Also the
two of that Kindle two
and the kennel DX have
a new E ink screen.
That's used 16 full gray
scales. So photos look fantastic.
So anytime you're going through
a PDF and you see
a photo, you see a
diagram you want to zoom
in on it. They'll just
take that whole thing, rotate
it, zoom in on it,
and you can see it
fill up the entire screen.
Great. So any, any PDF
of reasonable complexity, it would
be fine. I did have
one or two really over
the top, he did PDFs
and I think they had
reviewer options turned on or
something. What kind of super
PDF feature? Sure. You know,
PDF nine or some new
thing. And the Kendall said,
no, I'm sorry. I can't
do that. The problem with
the Kindle. And actually if
you go up and, and
Google with being for, I
think it was Princeton did
an experiment where they were
going to have every student
in their sociology class get
a P a Kindle and
they were going to do
no dead tree books. Everyone
was going to get their
books on a Kindle. And
they, they said no one
wanted to keep the Kindle.
After the end of the
class, it's too slow to
navigate. And it's impossible to
take notes while the Kindle
on paper seems like a
brilliant, brilliant idea for doing,
for doing books for, for
colleges. If you can't take
notes in the margins, then
what can you do? And
that is a huge problem.
And they, they declared it
unacceptable for them unacceptable for,
for Princeton, if I remember
correctly. So if you're a
person who likes to read
and take notes and annotate,
the annotations are a joke.
It's just, it's not going
to happen. But for novels,
for fiction, it is a
joy. The, the, the way
that, you know, as, as
a user of a Kindle,
the way that you know,
that this is going to
be something big is when
you go, w when I
was at the air, I
just happened to me. Actually,
I was at the airport
at a bookstore. I go
into the bookstore and I
see a book. And then
I open up the book
and I read the outside
and I feel the book,
you know, I caressed the
dead tree. And then I
walk out of the bookstore
and I buy the thing
on my Amazon Kendall, right?
I mean, literally Jeff Bezos reached
out of Seattle and into
my pocket and pulled money
out of my account with
the ease of one click.
Right. And boom, suddenly that
I'm watching the next, I'm
reading the next episode of
the very Southern vampire diaries
mysteries, the Sookie Stackhouse novels.
If you must know what,
in fact that I, what
I would, in fact, I'm
reading I'm on book seven
and don't knock it. It's
great stuff and watch true
blood on HBO. So we're
coming to the end of
about a 45 minute show
on Hanselman share. Let's just
have a little five minute
period at the end where
we have open questions on
the Ustream. So start busting
it out. And then I
will would say goodnight to
you guys. I think the
ustream.tv has worked out pretty
well so far. I'll have
a link for this on
the show. It's ustream.tv/channel/handsome and
it's live. But again, all
of this will be set
up at Hanselman it's dot
com. We ended up with
about a total of 196
people who came through the,
the Ustream and right now
60 of them ended up.
So it worked out pretty
good. The only thing I
don't like is that I
can't do the kind of
Larry King where I can push
a button and have someone
talk. I'm going to keep
trying different techniques like this.
And I think maybe, maybe,
maybe once a month, we'll
do a show like this,
and maybe I'll be as
famous as Leo, Leo, Lou,
what's his name? Apparently he's
making a boatload of money
for those of you who
joined late. And those of
you who are listening to
this recorded again, you can
all go up to hanselman.com
or Hansel minutes.com and we'll
have links. And as soon
as I stopped broadcasting the
show, Oh no, I didn't
push start record. Ah, now,
well, it looks like we've
only got audio. That's scary,
crazy. There's I'm looking at
this button here that says
start broadcast, start broadcast. That's
red. Next to it is
a button that says start
record that's green. Or if
you're red, green colorblind, the
two gray buttons on the
right. Good deal. Well, this
has been an episode of
Hansel minutes that has not
been In video. So for
the 57 of you who
have enjoyed this a little
video piece, I think that's
great. Good for you for
the rest of you. You're
listening to Hansel minutes, audio
edition, and there is nothing
else to see. Thanks again.
And I'll see you again
next week. .